# 0x00. C - Hello, World

## Description
This project introduces you to the basics of C programming. It covers fundamental concepts such as preprocessor directives, compiling, assembling, and linking C code. Additionally, you will explore basic output functions like `puts` and `printf`, learn about data types and their sizes, and delve into generating assembly code.

## Project Files
- **0-preprocessor**: A script that runs a C file through the preprocessor and saves the result into another file.
- **1-compiler**: A script that compiles a C file but does not link it, producing a `.o` file.
- **2-assembler**: A script that generates the assembly code of a C file and saves it in an output file with `.s` extension.
- **3-name**: A script that compiles a C file and creates an executable named `cisfun`.
- **4-puts.c**: A C program that prints "Programming is like building a multilingual puzzle" using the `puts` function.
- **5-printf.c**: A C program that prints "with proper grammar, but the outcome is a piece of art," using the `printf` function.
- **6-size.c**: A C program that prints the sizes of various data types on the computer it is compiled and run on.
- **100-intel**: A script that generates the assembly code (Intel syntax) of a C file and saves it in an output file.
- **101-quote.c**: A C program that prints "and that piece of art is useful" - Dora Korpar, 2015-10-19 to the standard error.

## How to Use
1. Clone this repository to your local machine using `git clone`.
2. Navigate to the `0x00-hello_world` directory.
3. Compile any C files using the provided scripts or GCC commands.
4. Run executables generated by scripts or compiled C programs.

## Example Usage
```bash
$ ./0-preprocessor    # Runs a C file through the preprocessor
$ ./1-compiler        # Compiles a C file without linking
$ ./2-assembler       # Generates assembly code from a C file
$ ./3-name            # Compiles a C file and creates an executable
$ gcc -Wall -pedantic -Werror -Wextra -std=gnu89 4-puts.c -o myputs
$ ./myputs            # Executes the compiled C program
$ gcc -Wall -pedantic -Werror -Wextra -std=gnu89 5-printf.c -o myprintf
$ ./myprintf          # Executes another compiled C program
$ ./6-size            # Prints the sizes of data types
$ ./100-intel         # Generates Intel assembly code from a C file
$ gcc -Wall -pedantic -Werror -Wextra -std=gnu89 -o quote 101-quote.c
$ ./quote             # Prints a quote to the standard error
